mySQLq - SQL Compiler Front-End

I build a custom, one-pass compiler front-end for a simplified SQL dialect (mySQLq), using C++, Flex, and Bison.

This program does not act as a database engine (it doesn't store data). Instead it acts as a strict syntax and semantic validator. It parses raw SQL files validates the grammar and strictly enforces scoping and typing rules during parse time.

Tech Stack
Lexical Analysis: Flex
Syntax Analysis:Bison (Yacc)
Semantic Analysis & Logic: C++ 

Key Features
Syntax Validation: Enforces strict SQL grammar rules (e.g., specific order of `SELECT`, `FROM`, `WHERE`, `GROUP BY`, `ORDER BY`, `LIMIT`).
Schema Memory (Symbol Table): Uses C++ `std::unordered_map` for O(1) lookups to store table schemas generated by `CREATE TABLE` statements.
Semantic Error Catching: Halts execution (`Fail-Fast` approach) and points to the exact line if it detects:
  -Creating a table or column that already exists.
  -Querying a table or column that hasn't been declared.
  -Type Mismatches: e.g., Trying to compare an `INT` column to a `VARCHAR` literal.
JOIN & Alias Support: Temporarily tracks SQL Aliases (`FROM table AS t`) to correctly resolve column prefixes (like `t.id`) and clears them after the query ends. Detects ambiguous columns if no prefix is provided in multi-table queries.

How it Works Under the Hood
1. Flex (Tokenizer): Reads the input file, ignores whitespaces and comments (`--` or `/* */`), and transforms the raw text into meaningful Tokens. It handles case-insensitivity for keywords using regex, while keeping identifiers case-sensitive.
2. Bison (Parser): Takes the Tokens and evaluates them against the language's BNF grammar. It handles operator precedence (AND, OR, NOT) to avoid shift/reduce conflicts.
3. C++ (Semantic Analyzer): Integrated directly into Bison actions. It manages state (Symbol Tables) to remember previously declared tables. Since `SELECT` columns are read before the `FROM` clause, they are stored in a temporary C++ vector and validated *after* the tables are known.

Getting Started

Prerequisites:
You need `gcc/g++`, `flex`, and `bison` installed on your system.

Build and Run
1. Clone the repository.
2. If you are on Windows, simply run the provided batch file:
   ```cmd
   .\run.bat
